hey guys so I made a video here on
losing weight and you're probably
thinking if you're not one of the
subscribers to this channel you're
probably thinking what's this mountain
biker doing talking about losing weight
well I know a lot of mountain bikers and
road bikers they use this sport as an
exercise to control their weight and I
also know that weight is a major concern
for a lot of people and losing weight as
well so what do you need to do to lose
weight well first off you need to know
two things first thing us why are you
gaining weight or why did you gain
weight essentially the bottom line to
why you gained weight is because you
consumed more calories than you burned
in a day now let's say my daily intake
is 2,000 calories for my age and my
height and then I consume 2020 calories
and I'm pretty consistent at that so
over the weeks over the months over the
years I will gain weight there is no
question because I my intake caloric
intake is higher than the amount of
calories that I'm burning that's
essentially true with everybody that is
for everybody overweight and then in
some cases it's different some some
people's diet is the problem their diet
is high you know in in fatty foods which
will go into next and then in some in
some cases some people say you know but
you know I eat healthy I eat a balanced
diet you know I eat oatmeal for
breakfast and cereal for breakfast and I
have a turkey sandwich for lunch and I
eat a pretty sensible dinner and then
you know and I walk around at work and
stuff like that and i'm still gaining
weight well in that case it's most
likely the portion size of the amount of
food that you're taking in is is
probably too high
so it goes back to consuming more
calories than you burn that day and then
if you take the weeks months and years
you will gain weight okay the second
thing you need to know it's a little bit
about nutrition is what they call a 494
rule if you look on the box of most of
the products that you you buy at the
grocery store you're going to see the
amount of carbohydrates fats and
proteins listed on the side of the box
in the 494 is four calories for
carbohydrates so I'll carbohydrates like
pastas and rice grains sugars they're
all essentially four calories per gram
and then nine is all for fats so that's
from animals dairy products all the oils
canola oil vegetable oil olive oil all
the oils anything that has to do with
fat is essentially nine gram nine
calories per gram and then the other 449
for the last four is protein so all the
proteins essentially get you getting
meats chicken fish beef some beans
essentially four calories so by knowing
that you know that if your diet is is
high in fats let's say for breakfast
someone has bacon and sausage and fried
hash browns and a couple of fried eggs
okay it's a lot of oil there for that
breakfast and then for lunch they go to
one of the fast-food restaurants and has
a hamburger french fries you know a coke
and some type of dessert and then for
lunch they have some you know like fried
chicken something like that and then if
you look at that diet it's it's very
high in fat and when you have very high
in a fat diet you know your caloric
intake goes way up it's you go back to
the 494 role where there's nine calories
per
gram of fat so those are the two things
you need to know so how do you go about
losing weight well the secret is you
essentially have to reverse the process
you have to consume less calories than
you burn per day and I know you see on
TV almost every day you look on TV and
you see one of the one of the weight
loss programs there's plenty of them
around you look on the internet there's
plenty but i'll save you a lot of money
and you don't in my opinion you don't
need any of those you don't need to go
to the grocery store and buy a certain
you know prepackaged lunches and dinners
that count calories for you you don't
need that you need you need three things
you need desire dedication and
discipline so need the desire to want to
lose weight need the dedication to
dedicate yourself to losing weight and
then you need discipline to keep
yourself on a well-balanced diet so
essentially if you you guys know how to
eat well balanced diets I mean you could
have that piece of chocolate cake and
you could have that that that fried food
it's just you got to moderate the
proportions and you can't do it every
day so eat healthy and essentially you
need to burn more calories than you
consume that day and then my tip for
that is walk around a lot of people they
go to work and then they don't have time
for exercise but maybe at lunch time you
could walk around your building or go
for a little stroll on a break and then
when you come home after dinner just
take a walk I mean not a lot of people
are could do mountain biking and not a
lot of people have time for a lot of
exercise to incorporate it into their
lives but I think most people have time
for walking so essentially walk as much
as you can there's pedometers that
people buy their
these little plastic units and accounts
the amount of steps you do each day try
and go for like 5,000 7,000 maybe even
10,000 steps in a day and you'll burn
calories just by walking around and then
the only other tip I have is if you're
hungry for something in between your
meals just eat an apple just need eat an
apple or a banana you know just have a
little piece of fruit you know it's easy
and Apple you don't have to peel it you
know and it doesn't make a mess like an
orange you have to peel it it makes a
mess and there's juice dripping all over
but you get the point okay so leave me a
comment and hopefully you do well on
your quest to lose weight
you